doc: add initial CoC wording (#80)
nodejs/bootstrap: proposals/stage-0/code-of-conduct/FOUNDATION_CODE_OF_CONDUCT_REQUIREMENTS.md

# Foundation Code of Conduct Requirements

It is important that there be a Code of Conduct (CoC) which
is documented and enforced for the _$FOUNDATION_ and the
projects within it. This document defines the requirements
for a CoC for the _$FOUNDATION_ and the projects which are part
of the foundation.

## Code of Conduct

The _$FOUNDATION_ has adopted the
[Contributor Covenant v1.4.1](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.md)

> as its code of conduct and it applies to all activities/spaces at the foundation level. In

Reviewer: What does "at the foundation level" mean here?

Reviewer: (Again, a question/comment that does not *require* immediate attention. Feel free to merge without addressing it at this time.)

Author: At the foundation level means that repos, meetings etc which are under the Foundation but not in a specific project.  A good example are CPC meetings or repos which are in a github organization setup for the Foundation as opposed to a project.

Reviewer: Would it be simpler and clearer to say "it applies to all foundation activities and spaces" rather than "it applies to all activities/spaces at the foundation level"?

Reviewer: (^^^^ Legitimately asking. I don't know if that somehow changes the meaning in a subtle way. I would expect that it might make the applicability *more* expansive, but I would also imagine that would be desirable.)

Author: I'm happy with your suggested wording, will pull in.

addition, projects joining the foundation are required to adopt this code of conduct
within 3 months of joining the foundation.

> The foundation has chosen to require a common Code of Conduct as this maximizes the effectiveness

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The foundation has chosen to require a common Code of Conduct to maximize its effectiveness
```

> at supporting both Projects, in their efforts to apply the Code of Conduct, as well as 

Author: That may have become redundant based on other edits.  It used to be support both Projects and and effective escalation process.

> at supporting both Projects, in their efforts to apply the Code of Conduct, as well as 

Author: Updated to fix .

> with which it can support Projects in their efforts to apply the Code of Conduct as well as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
at supporting both Projects, in their efforts to apply the Code of Conduct as well as
```

> an effective escalation process. 

Reviewer: This sentence seems to stop making sense at the first comma.  It seems like one sentence and a second incomplete sentence bolted onto it. Maybe an editing or copy/paste error? Regardless, it is very long and has multiple things packed into it. It should be split into two sentences. I'd offer a suggestion, but I'm having trouble with it myself and my daughter is asking to watch a Strong Bad video RIGHT NOW and is getting very impatient.

Reviewer: (Above comment a suggestion, not a blocking comment. Doubly so as this is apparently landing as a draft/proposal that is expected to undergo revisions.)

Author: I think that is a result of other comments, but I'll take another pass to try and make it better.

Author: Done

> supporting an effective escalation process. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 an effective escalation process. 
```

## Enforcement

For spaces managed by the foundation complaints can forwarded to report@xxxx.org and will

> be investigated by the CPC or its delegates. All complaints will be reviewed and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be investigated by the CPC or its delegates. All complaints will be reviewed, 
```

> investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
investigated, and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate
```

to the circumstances. The CPC is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard
to the reporter of an incident.

For spaces managed by each project, the project must provide an email to which complaints 
can be forwarded and document that complaints will be investigated and will result in a
response that is deemed appropriate for the circumstances. Each project is free to
implement enforcement of the Code of Conduct using processes appropriate for the size
and scope of the project including any day-to-day moderation of the project spaces. As part
of these processes, however, the project must agree to:
  * maintain the confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an indicent
  * to participate in and document the path for escalation as outlined in the section on Escalation.

## Escalation

> It is expected that most reports will be handled successfully by the CPC (in the

Author: I was trying to say that reports to the CPC for foundation spaces would be handled by the CPC and reports to Projects would be handled by the projects. Will try to clarify.

> It is expected that most reports will be handled successfully by the CPC (in the

Author: Updated to try to clarify

case of reports relating to spaces within the scope of the foundation) or
the processes put in place by a project. In exceptional cases where a
reporter wishes to challenge the response from the CPC or Project, or does
not feel comfortable reporting through the standard processes, an escalation
report can be made to coc-escalation@xxx.org.

All escalations will be reviewed and investigated by the Code of Conduct Panel (CoCP)
and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances.
The Code of Conduct panel is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard
to the reporter of an escalation. 

### Code of Conduct panel

The Code of Conduct panel is a cross-foundation team who have been trained in moderation
and code of conduct issues. The makeup of this team is as follows:

* The Foundation Executive director
* 1 member from the Board
* 1 member from the CPC
* each top-level project may optionally provide 1 member
* the non top-level projects may optionally provide 1 member
* optionally 1 invited outside expert as agreed by the other CoCP members.

> Members of the CoCP team will be added for a 1-year team and will be re-confirmed on

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Members of the CoCP team will be added for a 1-year term and will be re-confirmed on
```

> Members of the CoCP team will added for a 1 year team and will be re-comfirmed on

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Members of the CoCP team will be added for a 1-year team and will be re-confirmed on
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Members of the CoCP team will be added for a 1-year term and will be re-confirmed on
```

addition, projects joining the foundation are required to adopt this code of conduct
within 3 months of joining the foundation.

The foundation has chosen to require a common Code of Conduct. This will allow a common

> escalation process, and will allow the Foundation to better support projects in their efforts to apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
escalation process and will allow the Foundation to better support projects in their efforts to apply
```
